Introduction 

Purpose:
	We have 3 Main Objective/Perpose 
	1)The first objective of our project is to find out all the needs of customers pertaining to online shopping.
	2)The second objective of our project is to provide such a marketing mechanism that would bring enough traffic into the website through affiliate programs, Google Ad sense and other social marketing networks.
	3)The third objective of our project is to design a model to provide the customers a secured online shopping experience.

Scope:
	In this project, we have analyzed different ways of online shopping and focused particularly on gifting the products and their wrapping material.
	Firstly we are planing this projects application in India and then in other countries in which online shopping is effective and most common mode of buying.
	Our products will mainly consists of the various categories that the people usually purchase for gifting purposes.

Definitions:
	   OSS --> 	Online Shopping System
	   SRS --> 	Software Requirement Specification
	   GUI---> 	Graphical User Interface
	   Portal-->    Personalized Website
	   Stackholder--> The person who will participate in the System. And Onwer of system
				Ex.  Customer, Adminstrator , Shopper
	   UML--->	Software Engineering Notation for visualising System in the form diagrams
 	   SSL--->	Secure Socket Layer used for providing restricted access to application.
	   BOD--->      Board Of Directors (Management).
           RDBMS -->    Relational Dadabase Management System.
	   CLUSTERS---> Group of independent servers.

Overview:
	This System provides an easy solution to  customer's to buy the gifts without going to the shop and also deliver to
        to respective address.

Additional Information:
			In online buying security is one of the major concerns of most of the people.
			Through our proposed model in this research paper, customers can easily perform an online transaction. 
			They can buy different gift items for their loved ones. This website will include various products from different brands and categories. 
			Customer can also select the various wrapping papers to get their gifts wrapped. 
			Moreover, this website will include various ways of marketing and will provide a platform for individuals to meet online and share their experiences around the items they have bought in the past and which types of gifts are suitable for which events.
			We have also included payment mechanism through credit cards using Google Pay,Phone Pay,UPI,and other online payment methods as this is considered as the most trusted mechanism for online payments by the people across the globe.

Functional Requirement:
	This section provides requirement overview of the system. Various functional modules that can be implemented by 
	the system will be-
	
	Description:
		    Registration if customer wants to buy the product then he/she must be registered, Unregistered user can not get to shopping cart.
        	    Login Customer logins to the system by entering valid user id and password for shopping.
		    End User can Browse Prodcts , their categories as well, he/ she can add products to her/his wishlist.
		    Payment for customer; there are many of secure billing will be prepaid as debit or credit cart,postpaid as after shipping ,check or bank draft.
		    Logout after the payment of the product the customer will logged out.
		    Report Generation after all transation the system can generate the portable file (.pdf)
		    then sent one copy to customer's Email- address and 
	            another one for the system database to calculate the monthly transaction.
	            The term client/server refers primarily to an architecture or logical division of responsibilities, 
	            the client is the application (also known as the front-end), and the server is the RDBMS (also known as the back-end).
	            A client/server system is a distributed system in which,Some sites are client sites and others are server sites.
	            All the data resides at the server sites.
	            All applications execute at the client sites.
			
Technical Issues:
	         This system will work on client-Server architecture. It will require an internet server.
	         The system should support some commonly used browser such as Chrome etc.
          	 Interface Requirement Various interfaces for the product could be 
           	 1.Login Page, 
	   	 2.Registration form
    
	   	 There will be a screen displaying information about product that the shop having.

   	 	The customers may select the different options which will be open in another screen as
		1.Login Page
		2.Registration Form
		3.Product Page
		4.Shopping Cart 
                5.Shipping Details
                6.Purchase history
                7.Account  Settings
                8.Payment Gateways
	
Hardware Interface:
	   	   The System must run over the internet,
   	           All the hardware shall require to connect to internet will be hardware interface for the system.
   	  	   e.g. modem,  WAN, LAN
		   Specialized Server Infrastructure Hardware
   	           The system should use distrubuted servers i.e cloud for managing large amount of data so as to make it appear as single unit for end-user.
    	           The system should have proper clusters for backup.

Software Interface:
	   	   The system is on server so it requires the any scripting language like JSP or  PHP or ASP, ETC.
           	   The system should be able to exchange data using XML, JASON or any advance technology.
   	   	   The system require DataBase also for the store the any transaction of the system like MySql or oracle, or SQL server etc.
   	      	   System also require DNS (Domain Name space) for the naming on the internet.
   	           At the end-user need web browser for interact with the system.

Performance Requirement:
			There is no  performance requirement in this system, because the server request  and respone to client is totally based on internet connection of enduser.

Design Constrains:
		  This system should be developed using  Standard Web Page Development Tool , which conforms GUI standards such like HTML, XML, JSON,etc.
        	  The system should support various RDMS and Cloud Technologies.


Advantages:
	   1) Convenience: 
			  Where else can you do shopping even a midnight wearing your night suit? You do not have to wait in a line or wait till the shop assistant is ready to help you with your purchases. 
			  You can do your shopping in minutes even if you are busy apart from saving time and avoiding crowds. Online shops give us the opportunity to shop 24 x 7 and also reward us with a ‘no pollution’ shopping. 
	                  There is no better place to buy information products like e-books. Immediately after the payment is made one can download the information. 
			  And downloadable items purchased online eliminate the need for any kind of material goods at all.

	   2) Better Prices: 
			  We can get Products at cheap deals and better prices.
			  Products come to you direct from the manufacturer or seller without middlemen involved. 
			  Many online shops offer discount coupons and rebates. Apart from this, the Online Store is only required to collect sales tax if they have a physical location in our state even if we buy from a store across the world.

	   3) Variety: 
			  One can get several brands and products from different sellers at one place. 
			  You can get in on the latest international trends without spending money on airfare. 
			  When you shop online, you can shop from retailers in other parts of the country or even the world without being limited by geographic area. 
			  These stores offer a far greater selection of colors and sizes than you will find locally. Apart from that, How many times have it happened that you spend your money reaching a local shop only to find that the product you need is out of stock? Some online shops have a provision to accept orders without stock and ship it across to you when the stock becomes available. 
			  You also have the option of taking your business to another online store where the product is available.

	  4) Send Gifts: 
			  Online Shopping makes sending gifts to relatives and friends easy, no matter where ever they stay. Now there is no need of making distance an excuse for not sending a gift on occasions like Birthday, Wedding Anniversary, Marriage, Valentine’s Day, Mother’s Day etc..

	  5) Comparison of Prices: 
			  Online shops make comparison and research of products and prices possible. Online stores also give you the ability to share information and reviews with other shoppers who have firsthand experience with a product or retailer.


	  6) Buying Old or unused Stuff at low prices: 
			  Online Shops make it possible for us to buy old or unused stuff at rock bottom prices. If we want to buy antiques there is no better options than online stores.


This Project is based on Five Dimensions of Online Buying Experience Tracked by Gomez(Advisors), which are: [7]

		1>Web Site Usability (EASE)

		2>On-site Resources (SELECTION)

		3>Customer Confidence (TRUST)

		4>Relationship Services (REL)

		5>Price Leadership (COST)



Product Categories Section

This will be a domestic website having multiple products related to different industries e.g.

Fashion

Dresses

Jewelry

Bags

Shoes

Art

Portraits

Sceneries

Eatables

Chocolates

Cosmetics

Makeup

Perfumes

Wrapping Material

Glossy Papers

Cards

Wrapping Types

Cash Gift Coupons

(Note: Products will also be filtered based on the different occasions)

Products Filtration

Following events sections will be included to narrow down the customers search based on the events:

Birthday

Wedding

Christmas

Thanksgiving

Valentine’s Day

AGE GROUPS

15-20

21-30

31-45

45-55

Other: ______________

GENDER

MALE

FEMALE


Website user will perform the following steps:

		1)Sign up for an Account :
					  i>Login
					  ii>Manage customer database Browse category

		2)Select product:
					  i>add or remove item from cart
            				  ii>Manage customer database	  	

		3)Select Wrapping Material:
					  i>Add different product as well as Wrapping Material for decoration of gift
					  ii>approve/reject shop creation

		4)Enter Source and Destination (This will also include sender and receiver emails):
					  i>Shipping Details

		5)Enter Payment Details:
					  i>ByCreditCart By Debit Card
					  ii>Online Banking/UPI
					  iii>Cash on Delivary

Customers can also cancle the order :
				     i>If cancle before shipping will get full refund
				     ii>Shipping charges will be deducted if cancle after the product shipment
				     
This project also provides facility of product replacement in case of any damage at the time of dilivery.



Reminders Section:
		  Reminders for various events will also be sent to the members of Grab N Wrap. This will help the member in deciding about the gift items and necessary arrangements in advance.



